Part 1: Exploratory testing - Booking a stay in a hotel

Starting of my exploratory on this site regarding hotels I noticed that a there is a throttle on for selecting Hotels when navigating to https://www.phptravels.net/
At times it's displayed and there times when I cannot find Hotels in the main trip categories displayed on site.
I would guess there is only a random % of times when it's displayed or different build version deployed. I would normally check that with the development team and beforehand check the deployment pipelines for the deployed version
While the hotel offers are displayed I noticed the following scenarios to get to the landing page.

1. From the home page https://www.phptravels.net/home you can select 'Hotels' in the main iframe and search for your arrival city, your travel dates and number of passengers.
After deciding which hotel offer you desire you need to click 'Details' to navigate to the landing page.
Here you can review your details and checkout information.
One defect I noticed on all hotels landing pages where the absence of 'Book Now' button which were displayed on other booking types available on site.
The user can only refine dates and modify the booking details regarding the check in / check out dates and number of passengers without having the 'Book Now' button displayed

2. From the home page, scrolling down you can get to the featured hotels from where you can follow the same journey as described above.

3. There is a contact number displayed on the right corner of the site, calling and booking an available hotel in the desired location should work.

If still unsure how to make a hotel booking any customer could read the 'How to book' steps from https://www.phptravels.net/How-to-Book

Other bugs I noticed while performing exploratory testing would be:
- a few hotel images were not displayed on home page and also on the hotel landing page.
- displaying hotels with no available room is not recommended.
- adding new reviews will not be displayed and stored.
- lack of any relevant information on any available hotel offers, such as : Hotel Amenities, date of room availability, facilities or reviews or even some price estimates.


First I would make sure that the identified scenarios are functionality issues, regarding the unavailability to book hotels or that fact that hotels with unavailable rooms are displayed.
Also I would focus on reporting the usability related issues.
I would guess since there are no available rooms right now you can't book any listed hotel offering but I would suggest having listed only offers with available rooms.

As per risks mitigation for this type of application:
- Availability, the possibility of unavailability would cause a loss for the company so any type of load balancing would be recommended.
- Performance loss, we do not want to suffer on the performance part mainly on special days or periods of the year, such as Christmas, Valentines day. We could mitigate this
with caching or TCP optimization.
- Malicious attacks - this would be real concern due to the sensitive data we store on each customer: name, address, card details, etc. Here some Web Application Firewall could
minimize attacks such as SQL injection and cross site scripting.
